Designing cooling channels for the thermoplastic injection process is a very important step in mold design.
A conformal cooling channel can significantly improve the efficiency and the quality of production in plastic injection molding.
This paper introduces an approach to generate spiral channels for conformal cooling.
The cooling channels designed by our algorithms has very simple connectivity and can achieve effective conformal cooling for the models with complex shapes.
The axial curves of cooling channels are constructed on a free-form surface conformal to the mold surface.
With the help of boundary-distance maps, algorithms are investigated to generate evenly distributed spiral curves on the surface.
The cooling channels derived from these spiral curves are conformal to the plastic part and introduce nearly no reduction at the rate of coolant flow.
Therefore, the channels are able to achieve uniform mold cooling.
Moreover, by having simple connectivity, these spiral channels can be fabricated by copper duct bending instead of expensive selective laser sintering.
Keywords: conformal cooling, spiral channels, free-form shape, boundary-distance map, injection molding.
As a common manufacturing process, plastic injection molding has been widely used to fabricate a variety of products.
During a plastic injection molding cycle, the plastic part and the mold must be cooled to room temperature so that the molded part can be solidified and with its shape maintained.
A substantial portion of the total molding cycle  could be required for cooling.
To improve the efficiency, cooling channels are usually integrated into the mold.
In general, conventional cooling channels in simple shapes are fabricated by drilling straight-line holes.
Without attaining the uniformity of surface temperature in a mold, the quality of plastic parts must be impaired by undesired defects, such as part warpage, sink mark, and differential shrinkage, etc.
In addition, non-uniform cooling also increases the cooling time.
The work presented in this paper is motivated by automating the design process of conformal cooling channels for products with free-form shapes.
Recently, we presented an approach in  to automatically generate circuit-like conformal cooling channels.
The approach starts from offsetting the mold surface into a working surface, upon which a centroidal Voronoi diagram is used to help generate the cooling circuits.
However, as the connectivity of a cooling circuit generated by  is complicated, the flow rate of coolant and also the temperature in the channels are highly non-uniform.
Pumping expenses will thus have to be drastically increased to improve the efficiency of heat transfer and assure uniform coolant temperature.
Furthermore, the fabrication of such cooling system with complex connectivity must be conducted by the additive manufacturing technique such as selective laser sintering , which is very expensive.
Our new approach proposed in this paper aims at solving these problems by designing spiral cooling channels.
A number of factors must be considered while designing cooling systems for plastic injection molding, such as layout and connections of channels, composition of coolant, pressure drop of coolant and runner system, etc.
In this work, we focus on the 3D shapes of conformal cooling channels.
Specifically, we investigate algorithms to generate spiral conformal cooling channels so that heat transfer in the cooling system is optimized and fabrication costs are reduced.
Similar to our prior work in , the axes of cooling channels are given on the working surface that is an offset of mold surface.
Therefore, the shape of cooling channels is assured to be conformal to the mold surface.
Uniform conformal cooling can be achieved as long as the temperature difference of the coolant between the inlet and the exit is small enough to be neglected.
The efficiency of heat transfer is much higher in convention than conduction, and increases dramatically in turbulent flow.
In particular, we focus on how to develop smooth spiral channels on the working surface conformal to the mold surface so that the turbulent flow is guaranteed.
Our design methodology of spiral and conformal cooling channels can be illustrated by Fig.1.
Given a cell-phone model to be fabricated by plastic injection moulding , offset surfaces are firstly constructed around it.
The conformal cooling is accomplished by generating cooling channels on the offset surfaces.
Part of the model's offset surface falling in the upper mold is used as the working surface for generating cooling channels for the upper mold .
Taking this upper mold as an example, an enhanced Dijkstra algorithm is applied on the working surface to construct a piecewise linear approximation of the boundary-distance map  and its consequent isocontours.
Fig.1 shows the color map of its BDM and the iso-contours in black curves.
The iso-contours are all in a simple topology .
Our idea is to transform this set of iso-contours into a spiral curve with approximately even spacing , in order to achieve uniform cooling.
Finally, the spiral curves are served as axes to generate channels by sweeping a sphere along the curves .
However, the contours of BDM on the working surface of the lower mold are in more complex topology - see Fig.1, where some iso-contours have multiple loops.
This brings in difficulty to generate a single spiral curve covering the whole working surface.
Designing and analyzing the conformal cooling channels for injection moulding have been studied for many years .
The systems developed in  involve a mathematical statement of the conformal cooling condition.
Based on the criterion defined in , we developed a method to approximate the typical dimensions of cooling channels in our prior work .
This method will also be used to determine the dimensions of cooling channels in this paper.
Many designers adopt the strategy introduced in  to design the final cooling system by synthesizing the sub-systems defined on each of the recognized features of plastic parts.
However, as the feature decomposition in general is a hard problem, this strategy is difficult to be realized on molds with freeform surfaces.
Alternatively, Park and Pham  proposes to decompose the regions according to the temperature distribution after the filling stage in molding simulation.
Nevertheless, the computation of this approach may converge slowly on models with freeform shapes.
Our region decomposition method presented in this paper is purely based on the geometric information - BDM, which can be computed efficiently.
A recent effort to automate the design of cooling system is made in .
In our work, all the channel axes are created on the offset surface surrounding the given model.
This offset surface is assigned as the working surface.
The grown offset surface of a solid model can be computed according to the mathematical definition given in .
Although the mathematical definition is compact, offsetting a freeform surface is not an easy job.
Note that, the working surface must be intersection-free to prevent ill-topology on the axial curves of channels.
Bieterman and Sandstrom  presented a method to use the solution of an elliptic partial differential equation  to morph a point  to the boundary of the shape.
The spiral curves can only be generated on starshaped polygons.
In the work of Yao and Joneja , deformed Archimedean spirals are placed on the medial axis, and a few contour parallel offset curves are added near the boundary to connect all elements to a single tool path.
To solve the problem of self-intersection and the generalization of shape to be processed, Held and Spielberger  investigated a method to generate spiral tool-path with the help of medial axis of a 2D polygon.
None of these approaches consider the problem of generating spiral curves on free-form surfaces.
Recently, a method is presented in  to generate iso-parametric tool-paths on surfaces represented by point clouds.
However, only direction parallel tool-paths and contour parallel tool-paths are considered.
In summary, an approach involving region decomposition for generating nearly-equidistant spiral curves on free-form surfaces remains an open problem.
Figure 2: Typical dimensions of cooling channels in the heat transfer model, where D is the diameter of cooling channels and l p is half thickness of a plastic part.
Details of notation can be found in Table 1. even space.
Section 4 describes BDM-based surface decomposition algorithm.
Experimental results and case studies are shown in section 5.
Finally, the paper ends with the conclusion section.
Our work has the following technical contributions.
By incorporating the above two algorithms, a new design pipeline is investigated to generate spiral cooling channels for products with free-form shapes.
Functionality of this approach will be demonstrated by experimental results and case studies.
Our paper is organized as follows.
This section briefly describes a method to use the thermal dynamic model to determine the geometric parameters of conformal cooling channels.
More details about this physical model can be found in our prior work .
The notation details are listed in Table 1.
Figure 3: An illustration about adding virtual pathes  into triangles:  a given triangle,  a 1-refined triangle with six virtual paths inserted, and  an example of 3-refined triangle.
Here, we adopt a simple approximation akin to  to evaluate BDM on the triangular mesh M , which works well on triangular meshes with relative regular triangles.
First, virtual paths are constructed on each triangles by refining each existing edge - a graph consists of vertices and edges of M and the virtual paths is called k-refined graph of M if each edge on M has k virtual nodes inserted.
Examples of different k-refined graph on a triangle is shown in Fig.3.
Then, using graph nodes on the boundary edges of M as sources, Dijkstra's algorithm can be applied on the krefined graph of M to compute a more accurate approximate of BDM.
Obviously, when k  , the approximation converges to the exact geodesics but with the cost of computing time.
We use 3-refined graphs in all the examples presented in this paper.
By this, BDM is defined throughout the working surface M , which is employed to govern the decomposition and the spiraling in the following sections.
Note that, all the computations in the rest of this paper are taken on this piecewiseB g linear representation of BDM, d .
In short, when the number of triangles B B g on M goes to infinity, d   dg .
However, the mechanical stiffness of a mold may be too weak to withstand a high pressure from putting cooling channels too close to the mold surface.
As a result, the value of lm is assigned as a value slightly smaller than tcycle Km /m cm .
Without loss of generality, we assume that the working surface used to generate spiral cooling channels is two-manifold and in the form of a triangular mesh.
A triangular mesh M is usually represented as a complex C = , where V, E and F are sets of vertices, edges and triangular faces respectively.
Information about the local connectivity, such as the left/right faces of an edge, the ordered edges inside a face, the edges linking to a vertex, is also stored together with the complex.
Definition 2 A boundary-distance field is defined on every B surface point, p  S , as dg .
The geodesic distance between two points on a differentiable surface can be evaluated by the first fundamental form .
However, it is impractical to compute a boundary-distance field in this way.
Our algorithms presented in this paper are based on a discrete version of the boundary-distance field.
In this section, we present how to generate spiral curves from the iso-contours of BDM with equal distance - i.e., W for the generation of conformal cooling channels.
The topology of surface region we are working on is assumed to be -simple.
However, a point generated in this way could run away from the input surface when the region between s j and srj is highly curved.
